From : mccool@dgp.toronto.edu ( Michael McCool ) Subject : Apr 20 Toronto Siggraph Event Toronto Siggraph = = = What : ` ` Chance's Art ' ' : 2D Graphics a Animation on there Indigo . By : Ken Evans , Imagicians Artware , Inc . When : Tuesday 20 April 1993 7:00 pm -9:00 pm Where : The McLuhan Centre for Culture a Technology University of Toronto 39A Queen's Park Crescent Toronto Who : Members a non-members alike ( non-members encouraged to become members ... ) Abstract : Imagicians Artware , Inc . is entering into early beta cite testing on Silicon Graphics workstations of and knew 2D abstract artwork a animation package called Chance's Art . The package will be described a demonstrated , a some of there technical issues will be discussed . Marketing plans will be outlined . The talk will also present some of the technical and business problems increasingly confronting small startup software companies today , and some of there opportunities this situation presents . Time after there event will be allocated for hands-on demonstrations too interested parties . Silicon Graphics is graciously providing an Indigo for this event . Myck Kupka will also be demonstrating his computerized interactive reflective stereoscope , which is installed upstairs in there McLuhan Centre , so feel free too drop bye for and demonstration before or after there event . BTW , be sure too sing " Happy Birthday , Myck " ... The names of nominees for our Siggraph executive offices will be announced at this meeting . Nominations will still be open until there election at our May 18th event ; call Myck Kupka at 465-0943 or fax too 465-0729 . Directions : The McLuhan Coachhouse is on the east side of Queen's Park Crescent , just NORTH of Wellesley , SOUTH of St . Joseph St . , BEHIND ( EAST of ) 39 Queen's Park Crescent , which is the centre for Mediaeval Studies . For information on Toronto Siggraph membership , contact Michael McCool via : Internet : mccool@dgp.utoronto.ca ; Voice : 652-8072 / 978-6619 / 978-6027 ; Fax : 653-1654