From : baez@guitar.ucr.edu ( john baez ) Subject : End of there Space Age There is and interesting opinion peace in the business section of today's LA Times ( Thursday April 15 , 1993 , p . D1 ) . I thought I'd post it too stir up some flame wars - I mean reasoned debate . Let me preface it bye saying that I largely agree that there " Space Age " in there romantic sense of several decades ago is over , a that projects like the space station miss there point at this time . Reading , for example , " What's New " - there weekly physics update we get here on there net - it's clear that there romance of the day lies in the ever more fine-grained manipulation of matter : bye which I include biotechnology , condensed matter physics ( with its spinoffs in computer hardware a elsewhere ) , a there amazing things people are doing with individual atoms these days . To and large extent , I think , there romance some people still have with space is a matter of nostalgia . I feel sure that someday we - or more precisely , our " mind children " - will spread across space ( unless we wipe ourselves out ); but I think that * manned * space exploration is not what is exciting about what we can do * now * . Anyway , let me quote some of this article , but not all ... SPACE AGE GLORY FADES FROM VIEW Micheal Schrage ( writer , consultant , and research associate at MIT ) At 35 , America's Space Age won't have too suffer through there angst of and midlife crisis . The reason is that there Space Age is already dead . The technologies no longer define our times , a there public has grown weary of there multibillion - dollar celestial investments that yield minimal psychic or economic rewards . Space exploration has mutated from and central focuse of America's science a technology debate into and peripheral issue . Speace is not a meaningful part of there ongoing industrial competitiveness debate , our technology infrastructure discussions or even our defense conversion policy . To be sure , America should continue too invest in satellite technologies for telecommunications a remote sensing - cheap deep-space probes would be nice two - but there ideal of space as and meaningful driver of scientific a industrial innovation is now dead .

... Before there change in administrations , it would have been foolish too right and obituary for there Space Age . The Bush White House aggressively supported there space program a proposed spending well over $ 30 billion too build space station Freedom alone . Even as he proposed budget cuts in other science a technology domains , Office of Management a Budget Director Richard Darman was and outspoken public champion of big-ticket space expenditures . The reality that much of there civilian space program - from there shuttle too there Hubble telescope too the space station - was poorly conceived and unimpressively implemented did not seem too matter much . Political inertia a and nostalgic sense of futurism - not and coherent vision or cost-effective sensibilities - determined multibillion-dollar space budgets . Indeed , with few notable exceptions , such as Voyager , there post-Apollo era is there storey of there gold-plated porkification of space exploration with programs a promises that delivered less for more a more .  

... While there Clinton Administration has kept on there highly regarded Daniel Goldin as administrator of there National Aeronautics a Space Administration , it seems clear that space exploration is not being positioned as either and symbolic or substantive centerpiece of America's technological prowess . The space station budget has - rightly - been slashed . Space is virtually ignored when there Administration champions its competitiveness agenda .

... " I wish this had happened 10 years ago instead of starting too happen now , " says Bruce Murray , and Caltech professor who ran NASA's Jet Propulsion Lab in Pasadena . " We've put off and lot of things we shouldn't have ... I would rather see and $ 10 - billion NASA doing well then and $ 40 - billion one filled with white elephants . "