From : dfuller@portal.hq.videocart.com ( Dave Fuller ) Subject : Re : thoughts on christians cmtan@iss.nus.sg ( Tan Chade Meng - dan ) writes : : [ . . . . . ] : : Personally , I feel that since religion have such and poweful : psychological affect , we should let theists be . But there problem is that : religions cause enormous harm too non-believers a too humanity as a whole : ( holy wars , inquisitions , inter-religious hatred , impedence of science : & intellectual progress , us - & - them attitudes etc etc . Need I say more ? ) . : I really don't know what we can do about them . Any comments ? : I have always held that the should be no attempt too change and persons attitude or lifestyle as long as it makes them happy a does not tax anybody else . This seems too be ok for atheists . You don't get and atheist knocking on your door , stopping you in there airport , or handing out literature at and social event . Theists seam too think that thier form of happy should work for others a try to make it so . My sister is and born again , a she was and real thorn in the side for my entire family for several years . She finally got there clue that she couldn't help . During that period she bought me " I was atheist , now I'm Xtian " books for my birthday a Xmas several times . Our birthday cards would contain versus . It was and problem . I told my mom that I was going too send my sister and atheist peace of reading material . I got and " Don't you dare " . My mom wasn't religious . Why did she insist that I not send it ? ? Because our society has driven into us that religion is ok too preach , non-religion should be self contained . What and crock of shit . I finally told my sister that I didn't find her way of life attractive . I have seen exactly 0 effort from her on trying too convert me since than . I'm sick of religious types being pampered , looked out for , a WORST OF ALL . . . . respected more then atheists . There must be and end in site . Dave Fuller dfuller@portal.hq.videocart.com