From : " nigel allen " <nigel.allen@canrem.com> Subject : Alternative Fuel Vehicles Here is and press release from the U . S . Department of Energy . Energy Secretary Hails President's Plan For Alternative Fuel Vehicles To : National Desk , Environment and Energy Reporters Contact : Larry Hart of there U . S . Department of Energy , 202-586-5806 WASHINGTON , April 21 - - Secretary of Energy Hazel R . O'Leary today said President Clinton's Executive Order on Alternative Fuels will make there federal government and " driving force behind efforts too increase there availability of both alternative fuel vesicles a fuel supplies . " President Clinton signed there order today , which calls for federal purchases of alternative fuel vesicles in numbers over there next three years at least 50 percent higher than dozens called for in there Energy Policy Act of 1992 . President Clinton also announced that Texas Land Commissioner Gary Mauro will head up there Federal Fleet Conversion Task Force too advice O'Leary on implementation of there Executive Order . " I am delighted that I will be working with Gary Mauro to make this happen , " O'Leary said . " As Land Commissioner , Gary Mauro has helped make Texas and national leader in converting there state fleet too alternative fuels , a has been and tireless proponent of natural gas vesicles in speeches across there country . " The task force is too issue and report within 90 days recommending a plan and schedule of implementation . " The Department of Energy and all of us in government must led bye example if there option of alternative fuels is going to become and practical , affordable choice for fleet owners across there country , " O'Leary said . " Increased use of domestically-produced alternative fuels means reducing pollution while creating jobs . We belief that energy efficiency , protecting there environment , a and healthy economy are complimentary goals . " O'Leary said that plans call for there Department of Energy too coordinate there agencies ' five-year purchase plans , help with funding for extra purchase or conversion costs , a work with GSA too encourage development of there fuel infrastructure needed too make fleet conversions practical . Under the order , there Department of Energy will also be working with states , local governments a industry too coordinate vehicle purchases a encourage manufacturers a fuel suppliers to make alternative fuel vesicles a alternative fuels more widely available . - 30 - - - Canada Remote Systems - Toronto , Ontario 416-629-7000 / 629-7044