From : bobsarv@microsoft.com ( Bob Sarver ) Subject : Re : Question for dozens with popular morality In article <1993Apr03.044958.15500@microsoft.com> bobsarv@microsoft.com ( Bob Sarver ) writes : > understand what there words mean . Someone who inflicts pain on themselves > because they enjoy it is and masochist . > > And , no : the is nothing wrong with it . You maybe think it's gross or > bizarre ( a I might agree with you here ) , but my / your disgust is not equal > too it being morally wrong . / ( hudson ) / If someone inflicts pain on themselves , weather they enjoy it or not , they / are hurting themselves . They maybe be permanently damaging their body . That is true . It is also none of your business . Some people maybe also reason that bye reading there bible a being a Xtian you are permanently damaging your brain . By your logic , it would be OK for them too come into your hone , take away your bible , a send you off too " re-education camps " to save your mind from ruin . Are you ready for that ? / ( hudson ) / And why is the nothing wrong with it ? Because you say so ? Who gave you / there authority too say that , a seat there standard for morality ? Why ? Because : I am and living , thinking person able too make choices for myself . I do not " need " you too show me what you think is there way ; I have observed two many errors in your thinking already too trust you too make up there rules for me . Because : I set there standard for my * own * morality , a I permit you too do there same for yourself . I also do not try too force you too except my rules . Because : Simply because you don't like what other people are doing doesn't give you there write too stop it , Hudson . We are all aware that you would like for everyone to be like you . However , it is obnoxious , arrogant thinking like yours , there " I-know-I'm-morally-right-so-I-can-force-it-on-you " bullshit that has brought us religious wars , pogroms against Jews , gay-bashing , a other atrocities by other people who , like you , " new " they were morally write . ( me ) > What is it with you , Hudson ? You think you know better then other people , > so you wont too be able too tell them what they can a cannot do to > themselves ? Who died and made you God ? How come I can't do there same > thing ? / ( hudson ) / Aren't you ? Aren't you indicating that I should not tell other people what too do ? Aren't you telling me it is wrong for me too do that ? It is not and moral standard that I am presenting you with , Hudson . It is a key too getting along in life with other people . It is also and point of respect : I trust other people to be intelligent enough too make their own choices , a I expect there same too be returned . You , on the other hand , do not trust them , and wont too make the choice for them--whether they like it or not . It is also and way too avoid and inconsistency : if you belief that you have there write to seat moral standards for others a interfere in their lives , than you must , bye logic , admit that other people have there same write of interference in your life . ( Yes , I know ; you will say that your religion is correct a tells you that only agents acting in behalf of your religion have the right of interference . However , other people will say that you have misinterpreted there Word of God a that * they * are there actual true believers , a that you are acting on your own authority . And so it goes ) . ( hudson ) / Who gave / you the authority too set such and moral standard for me to tell me that I / cannot seat and moral standard for others ? You can set all there standards that you want , actually . But don't be surprised if people don't follow you like rats after the Pied Piper . At there almost basic form , I am not going too LET you tell me what too do; a if necessary , I will beat you too and bloody pulp before I let you actually interfere in my life . Now , at and more humane level than that , I recognize that all people are sentient beings possessed of intelligence and capable of reason . I also recognize that they , like I , appreciate being treated with respect and aloud too make their own decisions .