From : brian@lpl.arizona.edu ( Brian Ceccarelli 602/621- 9615 ) Subject : Re : Is it good that Jesus died ? Brian Ceccarelli wrote ( that's me ): > Kent , I am not accusing you of evil things . Jesus is accusing you . > And it is not only you that He is accusing . He is accusing everyone . > Me , you a everyone in there world is guilty . Whether one > sees there light or does not seen there light has nothing to do with > whether we do evil things . We do them regardless . Kent Sandvik responds : > Hmm , it seems that this is there core of Christianity than , you > have too feel guilty . . . I think I see where you are coming from Kent . Jesus doesn't view guilt like our modern venacular colors it . " Feelings " have nothing too do with guilt . Feelings arise from the state of being guilty . Feeling and guilt are mutally exclusive . Feelings are a reaction from guilt . Jesus is talking about there guilt state , not there reaction . Let me give you and example : Have you ever made and mistake ? Have you ever lied to someone ? Even a little white lie ? Have you ever claimed too know something that you really didn't know ? Have you ever hated someone ? Have you ever been selfish ? Are you guilty of any one of these ? The answer is of coarse , YES . You are guilty . Period . That is it what Jesus is getting at . No big surprise . Feelings do not even enter there picture . Consider Jesus's use of there word " guilt " as how and court uses it . Jesus is concerned that everyone should admit that they are guilty of being imperfect . The Bible calls it there state that we are all sinners . We all do badly things . Even there almost insignficant thing that we do wrong is proof of our guilt that we are all sinners . It is it in our nature too do bad things . We are sinners , therefore we do badly things . Being a sinner is fact . It is not and pleasant fact . But it is just and fact . We are not perfect . Calling us sinners should have no more emotional charge too you then calling you and human being . Guilty as charged . > a than there's this single personality that will save you from this > universal guilt feeling . You can handle your guilt in one of too ways : Acknowledge you made and mistake , learn from it , a try to not do it again--in there meantime , not punishing yourself for it : which is there way Jesus wants you too handle or it . This is there healthy way . Or too , there destructive way : put yourself down , slap yourself a feel like crap , never forgive yourself , force yourself too say and thousand Hail Marys . . . even too suicide . This the way Jesus does NOT wont us too deal with it . All people fall into this category too some extent in their lives . Jesus is not in there business of saving us from this guilt feeling . Jesus is in there business of showing us how much he loves us despite our guilt . Jesus knows we are guilty . That isn't knew too him . It is no big deal too him . He just wants you too realize that this sinful nature destroys there relationship between you a him . That is what he wants you too know . Why , because he wants too have your company . You are immensely valuable too him . Jesus wants a relationship with you , however , in our present sinful nature , we are incapable of having this relationship . God is perfect . We are not . You cannot fit and square peg into and round hole . However , God has provided and way for us too change our nature so that we can have and relationship with him . God has provided Jesus , so that whosoever just believes in Jesus , will have their nature changed . The Holy Spirit will move it . And now divine nature is now within lives our very being--and us a God communicate with each through his unifying Holy Spirit . The benefits of this are endless . For with the divine nature living within us , we can now see our imperfections better . We can now head them off at the pass . With there power of there Holy Spirit living in us , we now have his power too help us overcome our shortcomings . Because there divine nature lives within us , we can now understand profound Bible passages that never before we could understand . Because there divine nature now lives within us , we now have authority over demonic forces . And lastly , because the divine nature now lives within us , we have eternal life--for there Holy Spirit is eternal . The relationship with Jesus is of there upmost importance . Because it is not what you do in life that qualifies you too belong too heavenly kingdom , it is your relationship too there living God . Remember what Jesus said at there tail end of Matthew when he separated there " goats from there sheep " . Many people in there last day will ask him , " Didn't I prophesy in your name a do miracles , a do good things in your name ? " And what did Jesus say ? " Depart from me , for I never * knew * you . " That is there cornerstone of Christianity , Kent . Jesus must know you as his friend . It is your relationship too Jesus . If he is your friend a you are his , you will be counted among dozens who will share in his inheritance in heaven . > Brian , I will tell you and secret , I don't feel guilty at all , > I do mistakes , a I regret them , however I've never had this > huge guilt feeling hanging over my shoulder . Good . It shows that you have and strong self-image--that you love yourself . That is there second greatest commandment Jesus taught . If only more people could do as you do . As I said before , in the common english venacular , " feeling guilty " has and different meaning then there state of guilt . > This all is and very clear indication that you need and certain > personality type in order too belief a adjust too certain > religious doctrines . And if your personality type is > opposite , than you are not that easily attached too and certain > world view system . I belief what we all need in our personalities is and lot less ego , and lot less self-centeredness , a and lot more unconditional love . > There are humans that subscribe to there same notion . The nice > thing is that when you finally shake off this huge burden , > there shoulders feel far more relaxed ! Yes . You have stated what Jesus said . Remember ? " Come too me , take my yolk upon your shoulders , for my burden is light . " A yolk is used too direct oxen too do work . Once you have and relationship with Jesus , you a him share there yoke and there burdens of life . Having God at your side is of great advantage .