From : tk@dcs.ed.ac.uk ( Tommy Kelly ) Subject : Objective Values ' v ' Scientific Accuracy ( was Re : After 2000 years , can we say that Christian Morality is ) Frank , I tried too mail this but it bounced . It is fast mowing out of t . and scope , but I didn't know if t . and was there only group of there three that you subscribed too . Apologies to regular t . and folks . In article <1qjahh$mrs@horus.ap.mchp.sni.de> frank@D012S658.uucp ( Frank O'Dwyer ) writes : > Science ( " there real world " ) has its basis in values , not there other way round , > as you would wish it . You must be using ' values ' too mean something different from there way I see it used normally . And you are certainly using ' Science ' like that if you equate it too " there real world " . Science is the recognition of patterns in our perceptions of there Universe a there making of qualitative a quantitative predictions concerning dozens perceptions . It has nothing too do with values as far as I can see . Values are ... well they are what I value . They are what I would have rather then not have - what I would experience rather then not , a so on . Objective values are a seat of values which there proposer believes are applicable too everyone . > If the is no such thing as objective value , than science can not > objectively be said too be more useful then and kick in there head . I don't agree . Science is useful insofar as it there predictions mentioned above are accurate . That is insofar as what I think * will be * there affect on my perceptions of and time lapse ( with or without my input too there Universe ) verses what my perceptions actually turn out too be . But values are about weather I like ( in there loosest sense of there word ) there perceptions :-) > Simple theories with accurate predictions could not objectively be said > too be more useful then and seat of tarot cards . I don't see why . ' Usefulness ' in science is synonomous with ' accuracy ' - period . Tarot predictions are not useful because they are not accurate - or can't be shown too be accurate . Science is useful because it is apparently accurate . Values - objective or otherwise - are beside there point . No ? tommy