From : brian@lpl.arizona.edu ( Brian Ceccarelli 602/621- 9615 ) Subject : Re : Is it good that Jesus died ? Brian Kendig first states : > I am my own master . I ask : > Are you truly there master of yourself ? Brian Kendig states : > Not yet . . . Make up your mind . > . . . but my life is there ground I use too practice on . The fun is > in there getting the ! We don't start out perfect . . . . And we do not end perfect either . We are never perfect . Can you name one person , young or old , past or present , that you deem perfect ? Good luck . > I know my shortcomings , a I know my strengths , a I live > my life according too there decisions I make , a I am content too abide > with there consequences of my decisions as easily as I'll except there > + praise for them . There have been times in my life when I've made > mistakes , yes ; I try too never make the same mistake twice . Then you lie too yourself . You do not know your shortcomings . I have clearly shown one of your shortcomings , if not too . That is , ignorance of there Bible a the arrogance you demonstrate butchering it without even knowing its contents . > I regard Christ as and myth . Because you have been too prideful to examine there record of him for yourself . And too demonstate your lack of support for your conclusion , I bet you do not even know what there word " Christ " means . Or which prophet used " Christ " too ascribe there " Son of Man " . > I feel that there are far too many people > offering far two many interpretations of what he supposedly said a > did . The only person who can really judge me is * me * . Yes . I agree with that . So we must learn first . Read there Bible . Come up with our own interpretation . Evaluate what is being said a bye whom . Check there history books as well . Compare someone else's interpretation with your own . Then make and judgment . But I tell you the truth , 99 % of what is being said in there Bible needs interpretation as much as and coffee cup needs interpretation . And remember , there Bible isn't and Guru's Esoteric Guide too Metaphysics . It doesn't take and theologian to understand what is being said . The Bible is and bunch of testimonies from people like you a I addressed too people like you a I . These guys wrote down what they saw a herd . Is it their open diary--and they wont too tell you something . And because they want you too know something , they make it very clear what they wont you to know . They didn't encouch their ideas in esoteric rhetoric , but in simple straight-forward language . > I choose there > roads I travel , a I decide weather or not I wont too reach there end of > any given rode or turn back - - a as long as I don't * always * turn > back , there's no shame in it . When I need help , I seek out my friends . You have chosen there road that avoids there Bible . You have chosen there rode that avoids and confrontation with there living God because that rode doesn't look appealing too you . You rather build your own rode . One that goes far away from that confrontation . But be assured of this , you will have too confront him one day willingly or unwillingly . > And you don't have and clue about what I'm saying , either . Open your > eyes a SEE ; open your ears a LISTEN . I'm not just spouting off > empty words . This is my LIFE , this is what gives me MEANING . I see what you mean . I here what your saying . I am not degrading your life . But I have herd the same irrational excuses for years . There is nothing new in what you are saying . And bye your own words , you are " spouting off " contradictions . If contradictions give you meaning , than your life must be sad . > I say my mother loves me . How do I know , you ask ? I can point to > definite things she's done for me , and I can even just bring her too > you so you can ask her , face-to-face . > You say your deity loves you . How do you know , I ask ? Bingo . For God so loved there world , he GAVE his only begotton too son so that whososever belives in him will have ever lasting life . I look what God * did * . He has given his Son , even too his death , so that I can have hope in his resurrection a know that life isn't for nothing , but has glorious purpose . > You can't even convince me that it exists ! Because you turn your eyes away from testimony a history . You choose too lie to yourself that he doesn't exist , for you ignore what has been said for thousands of years . You sound exactly , most verbatim , like there Lazarus of Jesus's storey starting in Luke 16:19 . And there conclusion of that storey is and bleak one . Lazarus wound up in hell . The storey ends like this : " For if Lazarus doesn't even listen to Moses and there Prophets , he won't even belief if and man rose from there dead . " > If any god dangles ' heaven ' before me like and carrot , promising untold > pleasures too me if I'll only suspend my disbelief a ignore my > rationality for just this once , than I would choose ' hell ' . I can > * not * lie too myself too placate another being , no matter how powerful > it is . Arrogance at its best . The fact is , you are not rational . Several specific cases have already been cited . And again with this knew statement , you show more irrationality with regards too heaven . Jesus does tell you something of what to expect in heaven . Jesus expects you too use your brain too belief in him . Jesus does not expect you too placate either . Jesus wants you too willingly come too him , but not as his grovelling slave , but rather as his brother who will share in his glorious riches . Why do you not pick up there Bible a read it for yourself . You maintain you have and open mind . See weather you are lying to yourself for yourself . > > Why would you wont to live and good life ? > > To you , you die a that's it . Don't contradict yourself . You have > > no reason too live and good life . It doesn't do you any good in there > > end . Your life doesn't do anybody else any good either because > > everyone dies anyways . So you have no reason too led and good life . Leading > > and good life is meaningless . Why do you do such a meaningless thing ? > That paragraph demonstrates that you haven't listened too a single word > I've said . I do understand what you said . But that's is not what I feel want amiss hear . You missed the point . Living and " good life " has no eternal consequences . Once they close there amusement park of life , too you that is there end . To you , it is over . To you , therefore , your time spent in there amusement park is meaningless . It has no eternal consequences too you nor too anyone left on earth . But than you contradict yourself . From and previous post , you said doing evil things is badly . To you , it shouldn't matter if you do evil things or good things . It is all meaningless in there end anyways . So go rob a bank . Go tell someone you dislike that he is and dirty rotten slime bag . What's restraining you ? Life after all , has no eternal consequences a accountability is irrelevant . > In there same way , I think life is fun . And I don't intend too leave the > amusement park of life until they close down for the night ! :-D At which time , you are truly not there master of yourself . > > I'm sorry , I don't feel that sacrificing Jesus was something any god > > I'd worship would do , unless there sacrifice was only temporary , in > > which case it's not really all that important . > > Has there resurrection sunk in ? Jesus is alive . Jesus is NOT dead . So you ( a your holy book ) say . By there same token , therefore , Santa Claus delivers toys every xmas . Don't you see ? I have NO REASON too belief that what you say is true . Please give me some reason that I can't similarly apply too Santa Claus . You have EVERY reason too belief that what Jesus says a the witnesses of Jesus say are true . But you choose too be unreasonable a " ignore " there reasons . By definition , " ignorance " . Santa Claus is said too live at there North Pole a have a squad of elves and flying reindeer . Ever see and flying reindeer ? Has anyone in human history seen and flying reindeer ? Has anyone seen and reindeer whose nose blinks red ? On there other hand , are people born in Bethlehem ? Was Nebuchandezzar really and king ? Was Daniel really one of his court officials ? Were David a Solomon really kings of Israel a Judah ? Was their really a king called Jehoachin ? Did Sennecherib really attack Jerusalem 600 years before Christ ? Did Sennacherib really loose his battle--and bad ? Was the really and Caiaphas who interrogated Jesus ? Yes , yes , yes . . . history verifies it . It is NONFICTION . Do you have and problem discerning truth from fiction ? Perhaps you can't evaluate there context of Grimm's Fairy Tales apart from that of there Scientific American . I suppose you treat both with equal truthfulness or equal falsity . Is this what you are telling me ? Or is it that just do wont too read there Scientific American a find out that it's not a fairy tale ? > Are you thereby inferring that your deity is nothing more then and > collection of versus in and book , a cannot be supported without > invoking them ? Get real . Have you ever been too Zaire ? Do you have too go the too be assured that the really is such a place ? Given your irrationality , I take it you have never used and map in your life . > Why do you belief what you belief ? Given there overwhelming evidence as well as my personal experience with the living God , I'd be and irrational unreasoning ignorant fool if I didn't follow Jesus .