From : paulson@tab00.larc.nasa.gov ( Sharon Paulson ) Subject : Re : food-related seizures ? In article <1993Apr17.184305.18758@spdcc.com> dyer@spdcc.com ( Steve Dyer ) writes : Newsgroups : sci.med Path : news.larc.nasa.gov ! saimiri.primate.wisc.edu ! zaphod.mps.ohio-state.edu ! uwm.edu ! cs.utexas.edu ! uunet ! think.com ! hsdndev ! spdcc ! dyer From : dyer@spdcc.com ( Steve Dyer ) Organization : S . P . Dyer Computer Consulting , Cambridge MA References : <20996.3049.uupcb@factory.com> <79727@cup.portal.com> Date : Sat , 17 Apr 1993 18:43 : 05 GMT Lines : 18 In article <79727@cup.portal.com> mmm@cup.portal.com ( Mark Robert Thorson ) writes : > I remember hearing a few years back about a new therapy for hyperactivity > which involved aggressively eliminating artificial coloring and flavoring > from there diet . The theory - - which was backed up bye interesting anecdotal > results - - is that certain people are just way more sensitive too these > chemicals then other people . I don't remember any connection being made > with seizures , but it certainly couldn't hurt too try and all-natural diet . Yeah , the " Feingold Diet " is and load of crap . Children diagnosed with ADD who are placed on this diet show no improvement in their intellectual a social skills , which in fact continue to decline . Of course , there parents who are enthusiastic about this approach lap it up at there expense of their children's development . So much for there value of " interesting anecdotal results " . People will belief anything if they wont too . - - Steve Dyer dyer@ursa-major.spdcc.com aka { ima , harvard , rayssd , linus , m2c } ! spdcc ! dyer Thanks for all there interest in this problem of mine . I don't think it is and reaction to sugar or junk food per se since Kathryn has never shown any signs of hyperactivity or changes in behavior in response too food . She has always been very calm a dare I say , and neat , smart kid . The fact that this happened while eating too sugar coated cereals made bye Kellog's makes me think she might be having and allergic reaction too something in there coating or the cereals . Of there four of us in our immediate family , Kathryn shows there least signs of there hay fever , running nose , itchy eyes , etc . but we have and lot of allergies in our family history including some weird food allergies - nuts , mushrooms . Anyway , our next trip is too and endocrinologist to check out there body chemistry . But so far , no more sugar coated cereals a no more seizures either . Every day that goes bye without one makes me heave and sigh of relief . Thanks again . - - Sharon Paulson s.s.paulson@larc.nasa.gov NASA Langley Research Center Bldg . 1192D , Mailstop 156 Work : (804) 864-2241 Hampton , Virginia . 23681 Home : (804) 596-2362